1-CLICK TAX NOTICE DECODER - INSTALLATION AND USER GUIDE
Revised distribution: 21 September 2026
By Vaibhav Jain, Chartered Accountant

READ THIS FIRST
This is a locally hosted application, not a fully offline AI application.
The app opens in your browser on your own computer.
- Installation needs internet to download Python and its packages.
- After installation, Try Sample Notice works offline without an API key.
  This uses fictional, prewritten results; it does not analyse real documents.
- Real notice analysis, client-document analysis, legal research, strategy and
  AI drafting need internet and your own configured provider API key.
- API usage may incur charges. No API key, paid account or credits are included.
- Tesseract OCR runs locally; install it if you will use scanned PDFs.
  Tesseract, Python and Python packages are not bundled in this ZIP.

WINDOWS - FIRST-TIME SETUP
1. Save the ZIP, right-click it and select Extract All.
   Put the extracted tax_notice_decoder folder somewhere you can write to,
   for example Documents. Do not run files from inside the ZIP.
   Keep all files and subfolders together.

2. Install 64-bit Python 3.11 or newer from:
   https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/
   Select "Add Python to PATH" if the installer offers it.
   The development environment used Python 3.14.6 on Windows.

3. Double-click setup_windows.cmd in the extracted folder.
   Wait for "Setup complete". The first run can take several minutes.
   It creates a private .venv folder and downloads the required packages.
   It creates .env from .env.example only if .env does not already exist.

4. To try the demonstration, double-click start_app.cmd and select
   "Try Sample Notice". No API configuration is needed for this demonstration.

5. To analyse real notices, open the .env file in Notepad.
   Replace your_api_key_here with YOUR OWN provider API key.
   Select models available to your API account:
   OPENAI_MODEL must support structured outputs.
   OPENAI_RESEARCH_MODEL must support Responses web_search and structured output.
   The supplied model names are examples; access depends on your account.
   Leave OPENAI_BASE_URL commented out for the default provider.
   Save the file as .env, not .env.txt. Never share this file or your key.
   If file extensions are hidden, enable View > Show > File name extensions
   in File Explorer to check the filename.

6. Optional for scanned/image-only PDFs: install Tesseract with English data.
   Follow the Windows installer link in the Tesseract project's instructions:
   https://tesseract-ocr.github.io/tessdoc/Installation.html
   The app detects the standard installation automatically:
   C:\Program Files\Tesseract-OCR\tesseract.exe
   For another location, remove the # before TESSERACT_CMD in .env and set
   its full executable path. Additional OCR languages need their language data.
   Poppler is not required.

7. If the app was already running while you changed .env or installed OCR,
   download any work first, then restart Windows and run start_app.cmd again.
   This ensures the background app reads the new configuration.

EVERYDAY USE
Double-click start_app.cmd. It opens http://127.0.0.1:8501/ after the app starts.
The launcher may close; the app continues running in the background.
Running the launcher again reuses a server already running at that address.
Run it again after each Windows restart. No automatic startup is installed.
The address works only on the computer running the app.

The workflow is:
1. Upload notice: PDF, up to 20 MB and 60 pages.
2. Understand the issues: verify the extracted text and deadlines.
3. Client documents: review requested records, mark availability and upload
   available PDF, DOCX, XLSX, CSV or TXT evidence (10 files, 50 MB combined,
   maximum 20 MB per file). Record missing documents and client instructions.
4. Applicable law: review the public research topics and run legal research.
5. Case law: examine authorities for and against the client and research gaps.
6. Response strategy: prepare an issue-wise plan from the available material.
7. Review your reply: generate, edit and download the reply as a Word document.

Try Sample Notice is a demonstration. To test real extraction and AI calls,
upload assets/fictional_sample_notice.pdf after configuring your API key.
The sample has fixed fictional dates, which may appear overdue in the future.
Live provider access has to be verified using your own credentials.

Download your work before refreshing, closing or restarting: session data is
not saved to a database. Changes to evidence or research require a new strategy.
Uploaded attachments are not automatically included in the Word reply or filed.

IF SOMETHING DOES NOT WORK
- Python not found: install Python with PATH enabled, close the setup window
  and rerun setup_windows.cmd.
- Package installation fails: check internet/proxy access and the error in the
  setup window. Rerun setup_windows.cmd; it preserves an existing .env file.
- Browser cannot connect: run start_app.cmd and wait; use the exact address
  http://127.0.0.1:8501/. Startup logs are in the .runtime folder.
- PowerShell scripts blocked by your computer policy: use the manual launch
  below. There is no need to disable your computer's security policy.
- API error: check the key, API billing/quota, model access and internet.
  Research requires a model/provider supporting the specified web-search API.
- Scanned PDF fails: install Tesseract and English data, confirm its path, and
  restart the app. Prefer a clear scan. Verify OCR text against the original.
- Port 8501 already in use by another application: use the manual launch below
  with --server.port=8502, then open http://127.0.0.1:8502/.

MANUAL WINDOWS LAUNCH (ALSO ALLOWS EASY STOP/RESTART)
Open Command Prompt in the extracted application folder and run:
  .venv\Scripts\python.exe -m streamlit run app.py --server.address=127.0.0.1 --server.port=8501
Keep that window open while using the app. Press Ctrl+C there to stop it.
Use this after restarting Windows if you prefer it to the background launcher.

MACOS / LINUX
The double-click .cmd launchers are Windows-only. Install Python 3.11+ using
your system's supported method, extract the ZIP and open Terminal in its folder:
  python3 -m venv .venv
  source .venv/bin/activate
  python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
  cp .env.example .env
Edit .env with your own API settings. Do not repeat the copy over existing keys.
For OCR, install Tesseract using your system package manager (see the Tesseract
installation link above). Then run:
  python -m streamlit run app.py --server.address=127.0.0.1 --server.port=8501
Open http://127.0.0.1:8501/. Keep Terminal open; Ctrl+C stops the server.
Windows is the environment used for this release's checks; other operating
systems have not been verified on a clean installation.

DATA AND PROFESSIONAL REVIEW
Live analysis sends extracted notice and supporting-document content to the
configured AI provider. Only the editable public research topics are sent to
the research request; check that field for private information before searching.
Use client documents only where your organisation permits that processing.
Check all facts, legal authorities, deadlines and attachments before submission.
AI drafting and research do not guarantee completeness or legal correctness.

SHARING THIS APPLICATION
Send the original distribution ZIP. Each recipient should extract it, run setup
and configure their OWN API key. Do not resend your configured working folder:
it can contain .env credentials, local logs or client files you added yourself.
This ZIP excludes the developer's .env, .venv, logs and temporary working files.
It includes the source, styles, fictional sample, launchers and documentation.
It is not a standalone EXE or a package for installing without internet access.

For more detail, read README.md and CHECKS.md in this same folder.
